---
title: "📄 12 Factor App"
slug: "12fa"
sidebar_position: 1
---

Notes from Kelsey's ["12 Fractured Apps"](https://medium.com/@kelseyhightower/12-fractured-apps-1080c73d481c) post from 2015.

## Key Points

1. solve app issues at the app level; don't outsource it to config management or other hacks.
2. config files should be optional: if a load fails fallback to sane defaults instead of trying & dying e.g. config files
3. use config vars and override where needed, for config e.g. use `if !=""` and then grab it from `os.Getenv()`
4. create if it doesn't exist i.e. a data dir
5. use code to retry, with limits, database connections
6. introducing a mechanism that needs an environment to support it, increases build size e.g. bash script brings in an alpine image
7. adding a script now adds maintenance and another artifact that can "drift" and get out of sync i.e. the script
8. keep config out of the container image
9. don't require app starts in specific order, make each startup step not fatal when relying on each other.

## The Twelve Factors

_Source: ["12factor.net"](https://12factor.net/)_

### I. Codebase

One codebase tracked in revision control, many deploys

### II. Dependencies

Explicitly declare and isolate dependencies

### III. Config

Store config in the environment

### IV. Backing services

Treat backing services as attached resources

### V. Build, release, run

Strictly separate build and run stages

### VI. Processes

Execute the app as one or more stateless processes

### VII. Port binding

Export services via port binding

### VIII. Concurrency

Scale out via the process model

### IX. Disposability

Maximize robustness with fast startup and graceful shutdown

### X. Dev/prod parity

Keep development, staging, and production as similar as possible

### XI. Logs

Treat logs as event streams

### XII. Admin processes

Run admin/management tasks as one-off processes
