---
title: "The Story You Tell."
author: Ron Amosa
author_title: Geek/Hacker/Engineer
author_url: https://github.com/ronamosa
author_image_url: https://github.com/ronamosa.png
tags: [personal]
---

The internal monologue.

The narrative, the characters and plot.

The decisions and reasons for one action over another, or lack of reasoning all together. Still a reason, but lacking intentionality, lacking purpose.

We tell ourselves little stories, all the time. All. The. Time.

There's never not a time when we are not part of a storyline of our own doing, or a side character in someone else's story they're telling themselves.

<!-- truncate -->

Whether we are aware of it or not, a story is happening and we're the main character, story teller and narrator of the story.

So, if you know this, that a story is being told, by us, about us, of who we are, what we're about and what is important to us- do you know where you're going?

Do you even know what's happening? Or are you asleep at the wheel, and any moment now you're going to wake up head-long into an on-coming truck?

Do you ever wake up at all? And this all just passes you by, asleep and eventually dying at the wheel thinking you're in the back seat?

The story we tell ourselves, the conscious one about how "we're doing our best, we just need to persevere", runs right above an undercurrent of the story being dictated to us by what lies below, that we're not good enough, that we're not worthy, that we're bad and should be abandoned.

The story you tell, not only has to steer you to your north star, but it has to be the wind in the sails to push you over the undercurrent that would love nothing better than to sink you and every dream and potential you could ever have in this life.

Keep sailing. Tell a story you want to tell.
