---
title: "Consequences."
author: Ron Amosa
author_title: Hacker/Engineer/Geek
author_url: https://github.com/ronamosa
author_image_url: https://github.com/ronamosa.png
tags: [personal]
---

I have plenty of thoughts on controversial topics, I'm just not arrogant enough to think I can manage handling it on as public a scope as the internet.

The conversation you can have with your close friends, verses your acquaintances verses people you've just met are all very different and require an increasing level of "handling" so as not to be misinterpreted, misunderstood or altogether misconstrued.

If you know a person well enough to understand a broad range context about them from the outset, so that the things they say make sense to you without a lot of "scene setting" or definitions, clauses and disclaimers being made, then a conversation can achieve a lot without expending a lot of energy to "walk the same mile" together (so to speak).

Now imagine having a conversation with someone from work. They know you well enough, but not _that_ well, so your choices are you limit the topics of conversation to areas you both well know about each other, and the work is light. Or you take on more controversial topics and "do the work" (of fail to) to best understand each other and not have things go sideways.

The difference between someone who knows you; someone who "sort of" knows you, and then people on further and further away from you on the internet, is orders of magnitude, exponentially increasing in levels of difficulty managing context.

And I think a lot of people don't fully realise, appreciate or respect that.

This isn't to say "stay in your lane" or "don't share anything on the internet", the internet is an amazing tool for discovering and learning new things as well as contributing your voice and thoughts to the public discourse.

Just remember the infinite levels of context that exist, and that with great power, comes consequences.
