---
title: "Dopamedia"
author: Ron Amosa
author_title: Hacker/Engineer/Geek
author_url: https://github.com/ronamosa
author_image_url: https://github.com/ronamosa.png
tags: [personal]
---

Back to building from first principles.

I know once I stop reading the feeds I've curated, or newsletters I signed up to, that I'm hooked back into the social media short-term dopamine hit machine, which I'm coining the term "dopamedia" for the social media of dopamine hits.

It's instagrams discover screen. It's twitter. It's bluesky.

It's all the things that are bite sized hits, but not all of them hit the same, so you're constantly scavenging (i.e. scrolling) to find that next one that hits, and then the next one, and so forth.

First principles, for me, is long-form written pieces that I read through, stop and think regularly and this gets my mind thinking its thoughts, ideas and questions formulate and I feel like writing.

Writing is another first principle for me, sit down and write out your thoughts, questions, then go looking for answers to those questions anf write down your discoveries and learnings.

It's also listening to 3 hour long podcasts and going on the journey of not understanding, thinking you understand and get triggered, now you hate the guest, realise you don't know what you're talking about and hear something that disproves your assumptions and now the guest is a genius, the whole while you are learning, and probably more about yourself relative to the material, as much as learning about the guest and their knowledge.

That's todays thought- decrease dopamedia, increase long-form media.

Back to first principles.
